So this is probably the best
feature of node js.
And it's the community, right?
Node js is a thriving community full
of individuals who contribute and
build and create like some of the most
amazing things you can use inside of your
JavaScript applications.
So if you've been doing
front end development,
you've probably heard of react or
any other framework like that,
or a library like Lodash,
or something like that.
All of those are packages that you
can consume inside your application.
And even though those
are front end packages,
they are still considered node packages,
cuz you're actually installing with node.
They're being built with node,
things like that.
They're being consumed by node even though
the end target is probably the browser,
but how they got there was through node,
the mechanism of how they
got into your application.
So you could think of packages as
like a collection of modules or
even just one module that is available
to you, like it's shared whether it's on
a registry somewhere,
whether it's locally on your computer,
it's just a bundle of modules or some type
of logic that you are able to use and
you didn't write it, it's its own
application, it's its own entity.
And you're bringing it in
almost like the internal model,
the internal modules found in node js,
like the FS file system that we use,
we talked about path,
different things like that.
You can think of those as packages
built internally into node js.
So when it comes to node, there is a very
special tool that we use to manage those
packages because like I said,
there's hundreds, thousands,
millions of packages out there and
you need to have some
type of experience around that to be able
to get the packages you want, find them,
make sure that they're right, different
versions, different stuff like that.
So there's something out there that's
called node package manager, or
NPM for short.
NPM actually is already installed
on your machine if you have node,
you didn't have to do anything.
It comes bundled with node,
although they're two separate things.
So NPM is amazing because it
allows us to search, install,
build all different types of packages
in our application much faster.
A lot of OS level
languages like Python and
Ruby they also have package managers,
Python has like PIP.
Ruby has like Ruby gems,
different things like that.
This is just nodes version of that,
it's called NPM.
There's also other package
managers out there as well.
You might have heard of like Yarn and
probably some other ads
that are out there as well.
They pretty much all do the same thing and
they're interchangeable with
small features here and there.
Going forward,
we're just gonna use NPM for
everything because that's the standard and
up to the point that it is now.
It's actually pretty good.
So we're just gonna use NPM.
So what we're gonna do is we're
gonna create our first package, and
we're gonna learn how to
consume other packages.
So let's do that.
So what we're gonna do is,
first we have to create,
we have to turn an ordinary node code
base, an ordinary node app into a package.
And you've probably seen this and
done this a bunch of times, but
you probably didn't know what it was for
and the meaning behind it.
So I'm gonna walk you through it,
we need to create a package JSON file.
And we're gonna use NPM to do that for us.
So let's head over to our app here.
I already had all this stuff.
I'm just gonna just make a new folder and
toss all this stuff in there and
I'm gonna call it like intro.
And I'm just gonna say,
let me just grab all of these things,
drag them all, I guess, I don't know.
I'm just gonna put all these
in the intro folder and
then I'm gonna make a new folder here.
Well, outside of this folder
I'm gonna make a new folder and
I'm gonna call this package, like that.
It's important that we
make a new folder here or
you can treat your root folder as
the folder that you're gonna work on.
Regardless, we need a folder
to put something in.
So if you're following along,
just make a folder.
And then what you need to do you need to
make sure that you change directories into
that folder from your terminal.
So I'm gonna change directories
into package like that.
Now I'm inside of package and what we're
gonna do now is we're going to initialize
a package JSON file which is basically
telling node that hey, this is a package.
So, we're gonna say NPM run it.
And once you run that you're gonna be
inside of this interactive prompt that's
gonna be asking you questions.
You can just hit Enter repeatedly
to go through the defaults, but
we're gonna walk through so we kind of
understand what these field names are and
why some of them are important and
why some of them aren't.
So the first one, it's asking us like,
what's the name of this package?
This is important, because if you ever
decide to publish this package to
a registry, and we'll talk about that,
this name has to be unique.
That way when someone NPM
installs your package name,
it's guaranteed to be that package and
not something else.
We don't want any conflicts on name.
So there's no miscommunication or
misunderstanding about which
package you're actually getting.
So if you are gonna publish it,
it has to be a unique name.
And as you would imagine like anything
else that's unique like URLs,
all the good names are already taken.
So you can namespace these if you pay for
like a private account,
you can namespace them or
maybe it's free now, I don't remember.
But if you get an account,
you can namespace them.
And that's a whole another thing, but
yeah, you do wanna give it a name.
I'm just gonna call mine App cuz we're
probably not gonna publish this,
it's totally fine.
And that's only if you publish it,
you're gonna keep it locally,
you don't have to give it a unique name.
In fact,
this name doesn't even really matter.
So I'm just gonna say App.
I'm gonna keep it on version 1.0.0.
If you've never seen this
version syntax before,
this version syntax is called semantic
versioning or SEMVAR for short.
And basically it's just a three digit
system that like tells you what
the major version is, what the minor
version is, and what the patch version is.
Whereas major is, every time you
see a bump in the major version,
that's a really big change.
It's probably going to break
your app if you upgrade to that.
A minor is like we fixed some bugs,
everything pretty much works the same.
And we're just fixing some
stuff behind the scenes or
maybe we added something new
that doesn't break anything.
And then a patch is just like yeah,
we like changed some documentation or
we changed how this thing works.
But you use it exactly the same.
So that's SEMVAR So
that's why you'll see those three digits.
So I'm just gonna keep that at 1.0.
The description is exactly
what it sounds like.
Whatever you put here is gonna show up on
like a registries website like NPM website
or if it's hosted on GitHub or if it's
hosted on Yarn or whatever registry,
some internal registry, the description
field is here so it can be read and
presented that way.
And then an entry point is if I were
to require or import your module,
what file would I be importing?
What is that file?
That's the entry point.
The entry point is what is the door into
your module when someone imports it.
So that's it, was gonna default to that
and then a test command is what command
should we run when someone
tries to test this thing and
I'm gonna keep that blank for now.
The Git repository is
exactly what it sounds like,
where on Git is it hosted if anywhere and
keywords we don't need author we don't care
about right now, their license is okay.
So as you see, I went through all of that
and it generated this JSON object here and
it added it to a file called package.json.
So I'm gonna say yes, that's okay.
And then I'm gonna go check it out.
So you can see I have a package.json here.
And all the stuff that I
filled out is right here.
Ready, good to go.
So now we are officially a package.
We are NPM package right now.
And now we can use NPM and
we could do all different types of things.
So let's go back over to our website here.
We talked about some of these,
like the name and the version.
We talked about the main here.
One thing we didn't
talk about was scripts.
So scripts is really powerful.
We're gonna use them here in a little bit.
But they basically just allow you to
teach NPM different commands to run,
like little shortcuts that you
can do test was one of them.
It acts as what was the test command,
that's a test script.
But you can make a script, any name and
you can make it do whatever you want.
So they be pretty powerful.
Next, we're going to use NPM to actually
install some stuff and see how that works.
And I just wanna walk you
through that process.
So some of the commands that we
wanna use are gonna be NPM install.
So if we go look at NPM install,
I'll type in NPM Install help.
You can see that it pretty much says you
can run NPM install with no arcs and
it's going to try to install
everything in the directory.
We'll talk about that, or you can
run NPM install with like a name and
a name could be like I said, a scope
thing if you have a paid account or
something like that, or an alias to
something, a folder if it's local,
even a Git URL, a username slash project,.
Like it's,
you can pretty much install anything at
this point with NPM is pretty impressive.
There's just a couple flags here that
we're gonna talk about and how that works.
So NPM Install is one, exactly what
it sounds like, it installs packages.
And then we got NPM tests,
which is the test scripts.
And then we got NPM uninstall,
which is the opposite of install,
it uninstalls things.
So those are the three main commands
that you're probably using NPM and
until you run into like caching problems
and D duping and versions all messed up
then you gotta start looking into
all these other crazy NPM commands,
but we're not gonna do that today.
We're just gonna focus on these three.
So it is gonna be just fine.